# Assignment for 30th August, 2016

### General Notes on Terminology

What I chose to call `Option` is popularly called as `Maybe` in Haskell.
```
Option a = Some a | None
Maybe a = Just a | Nothing
```

I personally prefer `Option` (the Rust language introduced me to this
terminology), since it feels clearer. `Just` feels strange while `Some` does
not. Again, this is just a matter of syntax, but I believe that syntax
has a profound impact on the way in which we think of the semantics.


### Question 1 (Easy)

Create a datatype called `Repeated`,
```
data Repeated a = Zero | Once a | Twice a a
```

and implement a function called

```
liftRepeated :: (a -> b) -> Repeated a -> Repeated b
```

which does the "expected thing" in the sense of

```
liftRepeated f Zero = Zero
liftRepeated f (Once x)= Once (f x)
... (fill this in)
```

### Questoin 2 (Easy)

Create a datatype called as `Either'`,
```
Either' a b = Left' a | Right' b
```
(the `'` is important, since `Either`, `Left`, and `Right` are haskell
builtins. The `'` lets us make a new name.)

Write a function called
```
bimap :: (a -> x) -> (b -> y) -> Either a b -> Either x y
```

Where the first argument `a` is affected by the first function to produce an `x`
and the second argument is used to affect a `b` to produce the `y`.

It is called `bimap` because you are `map`ing on both components: the `a` and the
`b`.


### Question 3 (Intermediate)

Try and see how we can generalize `Repeated` to lists. We can notice the
similarity by seeing that `[a]` can be thought of as 
```
List a = Zero | Once a | Twice a a | Thrice a a a | ... 
```

implement a
```
mapList :: (a -> b) -> [a] -> [b]
```
This is the usual `map` present in Haskell.


### Question 4 (Hard)

We have created an 
```
Option a = Some a | None
```

we have also seen how to lift option functions:
```
liftOption :: (a -> b) -> Option a -> Option b
```

is it possible to lift a __2 parameter__ function? As in, can we write
```
liftOption2 :: (a -> b -> c) -> Option a -> Option b -> Option c
```

What about
```
liftOption3 :: (a -> b -> c -> d) -> Option a -> Option b -> Option c -> Option d
```

can this process be generalized? if yes, what's the ingredient we need?
(Searching for the term `Applicative` can be helpful here)

:w

